Interactive investigation guides (#2821)
elastic/security-docs: docs/experimental-features/investigation-guide-actions.asciidoc

[[interactive-investigation-guides]]
== Interactive investigation guides

NOTE: This feature is available for {stack} versions 8.6.0 and newer.

> Detection rule investigation guides suggest steps for triaging, analyzing, and responding to potential security issues. For custom rules, you can create an interactive investigation guide that includes buttons for launching runtime queries in <<timelines-ui,Timeline>>, using both alert data and hard-coded literal values. Each query button displays the number of documents found.

Reviewer: Combining the first sentence in the next para with this para because it feels a little disjointed. 
```suggestion
Detection rule investigation guides suggest steps for triaging, analyzing, and responding to potential security issues. For custom rules, you can create an interactive investigation guide that includes buttons for launching runtime queries in <<timelines-ui,Timeline>>, using alert data and hard-coded literal values. Each query button displays the number of documents found, which allows you to launch detailed Timeline investigations directly from an alert using relevant data.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/ig-alert-flyout.png[Alert details flyout with interactive investigation guide,550]

> Each query button displays the number of documents found. Click the button to automatically create the query in Timeline based on the investigation guide's configuration.

Reviewer 2: What are your thoughts on putting these two sentences in a separate section titled "Use investigation guides" or "Run investigation guides"? Currently, this information is bit hidden and assumes the user is reading the page from top to bottom. Moving it to a separate section could improve its visibility and searchability. It'd also cater to users who are just using the guides and not configuring them.

Author: I'm hesitant to break out a new section just for this info; maybe it'd be different if using the investigation guides was more complex than just clicking a button. @benironside suggested an [edit](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/2821#discussion_r1068250717) that might help make the distinction with configuration a little clearer.

Reviewer 2: 1+ to @benironside 's edit!

> Each query button displays the number of documents found. Click the button to automatically create the query in Timeline based on the investigation guide's configuration.

Author: @benironside's edit (got lost in GH refresh somehow):
```suggestion
Each query button displays the number of documents found. Click the button to automatically create the query in Timeline based on settings specified in the investigation guide.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/ig-timeline.png[Timeline with query pre-loaded from investigation guide action]

[discrete]
[[add-ig-actions-rule]]
=== Add investigation guide actions to a rule

NOTE: You can only create interactive investigation guides with custom rules, because Elastic prebuilt rules can't be edited. However, you can duplicate a prebuilt rule, then configure the investigation guide on the duplicated rule.

You can configure an interactive investigation guide when you <<rules-ui-create,create a new rule>> or <<edit-rules-settings,edit an existing rule>>. When configuring the rule's settings (the *About rule* step for a new rule, the *About* tab for an existing rule), expand the *Advanced settings*, then scroll down to the *Investigation guide* field.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/ig-investigation-guide-editor.png[Investigation guide editor field]

> Add the following syntax to the *Investigation guide* field to configure a query. The syntax will be rendered as an action button in the investigation guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following syntax to the *Investigation guide* field to configure a query. The syntax will appear as an action button in the investigation guide.
```

> Add the following syntax to the *Investigation guide* field to configure a query. The syntax will appear as an action button in the investigation guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the following syntax to the *Investigation guide* field to configure a query. The syntax will appear as a clickable button in the investigation guide.
```

Reviewer 2: Both work, but I think "clickable" is more descriptive of the action we want users to take when interacting with the guide.

[width="100%",options="header"]
|===
|Field |Description

|`!{insight{ }}` |The container object holding all the configuration attributes for the button and the query.

> |`label` |Label text on the button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`label` |The button label.
```

> |`description` |Description text on the button.

Reviewer 2: Could this be something less literal, for ex, "Additional information you want to include after the button label"? Or is this a case when it's better to be more literal?

Author: Added an [edit](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/2821/files#r1069633653) to address this and the previous line's comment. I wanted to keep "text" because just calling something a "label" sounds unclear to me.

Reviewer 2: edit lgtm 🚀

|`providers` a|A two-level nested array that defines the query you want to run in Timeline. Similar to the structure of queries in Timeline, items in the outer level are joined by an `OR` relationship, and items in the inner level are joined by an `AND` relationship.

Each item in `providers` is defined by these attributes:

* `field`: The name of a field to query.

> * `value`: The value to search for. Either a hard-coded literal value, or the name of the field on the alert whose value you want to use as a query parameter.

Reviewer 3: We should mention here that any value that contains a \ character need to be double escaped, i.e. a windows file path would be "C:\\\\Windows\\\\System32". This is a bit gross without the form builder doing this for them, but won't be an issue next release. The reason for this is that JSON.stringify/JSON.parse is ultimately used twice, once on the entire markdown snippet, and once on the provider part of the snippet.

Reviewer 3: ha the github markdown behaves similarly, that was supposed to be 4 slashes delineating each part of the path, so I think it ends up being 8. "C:\\\\\\\\Windows\\\\\\\\System32"

Author: Thanks @kqualters-elastic! Are there any other special characters that need to be escaped, either double `\\`or single `\`?

Reviewer 3: Ya I believe all the other JSON special characters as well:
\b  Backspace (ascii code 08)
\f  Form feed (ascii code 0C)
\n  New line
\r  Carriage return
\t  Tab
\"  Double quote
\\  Backslash character

Author: @kqualters-elastic I added a [note](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/2821/commits/a95f1fdd39cc428b4fcf0019226996d8cff66b3f) to explain escape characters, based on our Slack discussion. It's intentionally a little more general, pointing to the error icon to help users troubleshoot syntax errors. Feel free to edit as needed, once you've confirmed how exactly the characters work.
